Hopefully now you've been able
to set up this new project in
Arc GIS Pro and you've set up a
folder connection to your
downloaded materials and you've
added these four layers into
your map.
So in our contents we can see
these four layers.
The green polygons are the
spawning grounds of the grouper
fish.
We've got a pink Polygon
representing Tristina Island,
and then we've got a blue
Polygon to show the current no
take MPA zone that is around the
island.
And we've also got a Polygon
that shows us the seas that are
owned by Tristina Island, the
territorial seas.
So in this video, we're going to
be using the Clip geoprocessing
tool so that we can clip the
spawning grounds layer as we are
only interested in the spawning
grounds that are within the
territorial seas of Tristina.
So now we can open up our
geoprocessing toolbox.
So we'll go into the Analysis
tab, click on Tools, and now we
can search in Clip and it's the
first one that comes up so we
can click on this.
So the first thing we need to
put in is our input feature.
This is going to be the spawning
grounds as this is the feature
that we want to clip.
And then the clip features, this
is going to be what layer we're
using to show Arcgis Pro where
we want to clip the spawning
data to.
And so that's going to be the
territorial sea layer.
So we can drag this into the box
there.
And the last thing we need to
fill in is just where we want to
save this new layer.
Because as we know, a
Geoprocessing tool creates a new
layer with the manipulated data
in in it.
So we can save it in our
Geodatabase that was
automatically set up when we set
up this project and we can name
it something like Spawning
Grounds clip.
So we know it's the clipped data
set and then we can hit run.
And now if we turn off the
original spawning grounds data
set, in the contents we can see
that our new layer is just the
spawning grounds that are
overlapping or occurring within
the territorial sea layer.
And so that's how to use the
Clip tool in Arcgis Pro.
So just remember to hit save to
save your changes.